Welcome to Thriller Recapped, Today,
I will show you an American Mystery
Thriller film called “Secret Window”,
Spoilers Ahead, watch out and take care.
The movie starts with, Captain Jack Sparrow,
I mean, Morton Rainey, he is a mystery writer
and has published many books, he talks to
himself about not going back to his wife,
he seems to be in pain and shock, then he couldn’t
resist so he reverses the car back to a Motel.
He then grabs a key from the front desk,
and he leaves. He goes to a Motel room,
and there he finds his wife, Amy, having an affair
with his friend, Ted. Six months Later, after the
incident, Morton is living in an isolated cabin
at Tashmore Lake New York. Morton is suffering
from Depression and Writer’s block, which is like
Burnout, and he is delayed in writing new books.
A man named, John Shooter, arrives to his
cabin, and he accuses him of stealing his story,
Morton denies it and he says he will never
take accusations about plagiarism lightly.
Shooter then tries to give him his own
manuscript as a proof, but Morton closes
the door. He then leaves, then Morton tries to
remember his license plate. Once Shooter leaves,
he goes out and he finds that the guy left the
manuscript outside his door. Manuscript is named,
Sowing Season., by John Shooter. He then dumps
it in the trash, and he tries to sleep again.
Later, he asks his dog, if he can give him any
suggestions to continue the book. He looks at
his manuscript and he thinks that he no longer
possesses any abilities to write anything good.
Tired from everything, he erases what he just
wrote. Later, his maid tells him that she found
his story in the trash, so she took it out.
He reads few lines in it, and he learns that
it is very similar to his own story called,
Secret Window. He panics and drops the drink.
He apologizes to the maid, but she feels bad that
his manuscript is ruined, he denies it by saying
he didn’t write this, and that it is written by
John Shooter. He then reads his own work; he is
shocked to see the story to be exactly the same.
He gets a vision of his wife; she opens a window,
and she tells him it’s a secret window. He
feels like smoking, and he assures his dog
that he didn’t steal the story, the maid shows up
and she assures him that his wife did a mistake by
cheating, and some women don’t realize when they
have the whole world in front of them, and she
leaves. Once she leaves, he goes downstairs, still
telling himself that he didn’t steal the story.
He then gets a strange vision in his sleep.
He wakes up from a phone call. Amy, is worried
about his well-being, and she wants to know if
he is doing, ok? And if their dog is doing well.
He then asks her about his story, Secret
Window, he asks her if she shared his story
with anyone and she cannot recall, he asks
her to meet up with Ted for some drinks,
but she is not interested and she is happy with
his friend Ted. He wishes them luck to live in the
house that he bought from his money, and he hangs
up, only to blame himself again for everything.
The next day, he goes to the woods, and he
finds John Shooter there waiting for him,
Morton wants to know when Shooter wrote his
version of the book, since he wants to know
who wrote the story first, Shooter claims that
he wrote the story 7 years ago in the year 1997,
and he then starts roasting him like Beef.
Morton claims that he wrote the story in 1994,
it means he wrote it 3 years before him, and
he invalidates all the accusations of Shooter.
Shooter threatens him that he will go to his
house in New York, and say hi to his wife,
Morton reveals that he is in middle of a divorce,
and he is no longer the owner of the house.
Shooter warns him that beef with
him only ends in one of them dying,
and then he gives him 3 days to prove that Morton
wrote the Book first or he will take him down.
Later that day, Morton is in disbelief, and
he asks his dog that despite being a blind dog
he still loves him, but then why nobody who can
see loves him. The dog hears something, and he
goes outside. Morton is taking a nap, and he gets
another vision, that he fell from the height.
He wakes up and he finds a note outside the door.
He discovers that the light bulb is
broken, he then goes out to investigate,
and he finds a note from Shooter issuing him
a warning and telling him not to go to police.
Under the note, he finds his dog stabbed to
death. The next day, he makes a grave for his dog.
Later, he goes to Sheriff Newsome, and
informs him about the note and his dog.
Sheriff seems to be as if he is avoiding the
main topic, Morton wants him to talk with
Shooter and he wants just peace nothing else, but
Sheriff talks about everything except the Topic.
Later that day, he goes to his
friend, a Private Investigator,
Ken Karsch. They talk a bit, and it turns
out, Morton was accused earlier as well,
and Ken took care of him, so he wants him to
help him this time as well. Morton claims that
he has original copy of the book that he wrote
2 years before John Shooter wrote his version.
Unfortunately, the book is at Amy’s house,
and they both are no longer together.
Ken jokes about it by saying you must
have pounded other girls, in reality,
Amy was pounding other guy. Then he apologizes and
Ken assures him that he will check on his house.
Later, Morton goes back to his old house for the
manuscript, he sees Amy and Ted. Disgusted from
the couple, he decides to leave from there.
Later that night, he gets back to his cabin,
and he finds a car there. He goes next to it,
and he finds Ken dead. However, the only thing
that is dead, is his Humor. Then they search
the cabin, and they don’t find anyone there.
Morton claims that a guy named, Tom, saw him
and Shooter earlier when they were talking.
Ken assures him that nothing will
happen, and he decides to leave.
Morton asks him where he is staying
overnight, and it turns out,
Ken will be living in the same Motel,
where Morton found his wife cheating.
Once Ken leaves, Morton hears a noise from
upstairs, he grabs a poker from the fireplace,
and he goes upstairs but no one is there. Then
in the washroom, he sees a shadow in the mirror.
Upon hearing no response, he goes there and
swings the hammer but only to break the mirror.
He then breaks the shower door, and he finds a
mouse there. He then carefully grabs the mouse,
and a cigarette that he is trying to stop. He
goes outside and frees the mouse, Shooter says,
I thought you stopped smoking, revealing
he knows about him more than he thinks.
Shooter says that you went to Amy’s house but
why you didn’t take the Book. Shooter wants him
to fix the ending of his version of the book,
where the protagonist kills his cheating wife.
He then mentions his wife by saying she is Spicy,
Morton attacks him, but Shooter overpowers him,
and he threatens that he will go after his
wife, if he won’t fix the ending in the book.
The next day, Morton gets a call from Amy, she is
freaking out, and she tells him that someone burnt
their house. Morton goes there knowing that
now his original copy of the book is burnt.
Amy and Ted arrive there, Detective talks to them
and reveals that the fire was started by using a
Molotov Cocktail. He asks them if they’ve
any enemies, they say no, but Morton tells
them about Shooter. The Insurance investigator
gives them a list of items that they can claim,
and since they both filed for the divorce,
the items will be distributed in half.
Morton seems stressed from topic of his divorce,
but the investigator assures him that he will be
fine, and she went through it as well. As they
both go through list, Ted seems to be nosy about
the list, then Morton asks him to leave the room,
and he is forced to leave, since the items does
not belong to him. Later, Amy is afraid of Shooter
and, she wants him to pay him off, like they did
last time when one person accused him as well,
he assures her that nothing will happen. Then
Ted and Morton talk about the relationship,
Ted wants him to disappear from their life.
Morton asks him where the couple will go
after the house is burnt, Ted replies,
a place called Shooter, Morton recalls that
the full name of other guy is John Shooter.
Later that night, Morton gets back to the cabin,
and he gets a call from Ken, they talk a bit,
that the only proof he had is burnt in the fire.
However, Ken reveals that he found a magazine that
published his story which will prove his
innocence and it will arrive a day after.
Further, Ken tells Morton that he went to
the guy named Tom, and he claims that Tom
was scared when Shooter was mentioned, so they
speculate that Shooter might have threatened him.
Morton claims that Ted might be involved since
he gave him a hint with the name shooter.
Ken suggests that they should meet Tom
the next day and make him spit everything,
Ken then prepares to see Tom. The next day, Morton
wakes up late and he missed the meeting time,
and then he finds out that his car keys are
missing, he then prepares to leave, and he
finds a Hat that shooter used to wear, outside the
door. He also goes to his car, and he finds it on.
Surprisingly he finds a Cigarette bud in
it. He takes the hat as evidence. He goes
to the place they agreed on meeting, he asks the
cashier, and he learns that Ken didn’t show up.
On the way back, Morton spots Ted at a gas
station, he didn’t expect him to be there,
so he reverses the car, and he confronts him,
Ted says that he was coming there to meet him,
and then he demands that Morton should sign
the divorce paper. Since the beginning,
Morton is hesitant to sign the papers and he
still thinks that he can get his wife back, so he
rages up, and he speculates that Ted is working
for Shooter, and he leaves. He gets back to home,
sooner, he gets a call from Shooter, asking him
to meet at the same place for a special gift.
Morton goes there in sports mode, he arrives
to a jeep, and he finds Tom killed with an axe,
and that Ken is killed as well. Morton passes
out from the incident, only to wake up and find
Shooter next to him. Shooter states that those
two men are killed with an axe from Morton’s house
with his fingerprints on it. Morton claims that he
has the magazine, and he can prove his innocence,
Shooter demands that he wants him to fix the
ending of his story to his version of the book,
Morton sticks to his innocence and Shooter
states that he is not crazy and there cannot
be any magazine, but if there is any, then he
will hand himself to the police and he leaves.
Later, Morton retrieves his tools from Tom’s
head, in order to get rid of evidence. He then
pushes Tom’s Jeep off the cliff, but his hand
watch gets stuck in the turn signal, he manages
to free his hand, but the watch is left inside the
jeep, and it falls off from there into the water.
He then gets back to home and he gets a call from
Amy, she is worried about him, she is crying,
and she thinks if they didn’t lose their baby
in the past the things would have turned out
to be different. He asks her what she thinks
of Ted, and she claims that she loves Ted,
she thinks that Morton was busy since last 2 years
in writing books and he never had time for her,
and she wants him to sign the papers, only
to reveal that she was being nice to him,
to make him sign the divorce papers,
so he aggressively hangs up the phone.
Amy prepares herself to confront
him with the divorce papers,
Ted wants to go with her, but she denies
it. Since, it will make the things worse.
Later, Morton goes to the post office to
retrieve his package containing the magazine.
The lady working there gives him the package, and
she tells him that she saw everything what he did,
only to correct herself that she saw his new
look appealing. He then goes back to car,
the sheriff approaches him, and he says
he is busy. At home, Ted is worried,
so he decides to go to the cabin as well. Morton
learns that the package is already opened, he then
checks the magazine, and he finds out that someone
ripped off pages of his story from the magazine.
He talks to himself that how is it possible, he
gets inside the cabin and sees Shooter’s hat,
and he puts it on. Soon, he starts speaking to
himself, his inner self claims that he should
call police and they should put him in a prison,
before he does any more damage. His inner self
claims further that there is no John Shooter
at all, and it is all in his head. Morton is
getting frustrated and uncomfortable, and
he throws an object at the wall, and then
surprisingly the crack starts growing rapidly to
the point that it fractures the cabin in half.
He looks in the mirror, and he is shocked
to see the back of his head in the mirror.
Shooter appears, and he starts revealing
that Morton gave birth to his character.
He reveals that it was he himself,
who started the fire in the house,
then it was he who took Tom and Ken to an isolated
area and then killed them, Morton realizes that
John Shooter is just a figment of his imagination,
and he needs to fix the story to get rid of him.
Sooner, Amy arrives at the cabin, she walks,
and she finds the page from the magazine,
she looks for Morton and she
finds the house all messed up,
there is an empty bottle of Jack
Daniels and empty cigarette packet,
she hears some noise from upstairs, and she finds
the word, Shooter, carved repeatedly on the table,
and everywhere in the house, along with
the walls. Morton appears Infront of her,
speaking and acting like Shooter and wearing his
hat as well. He then attacks her with a scissor,
but she manages to approach her car. He then fixes
the hat, and he takes a stone to break the window.
He pulls her out from the car, and he drags her
back into the cabin. She tries to run, but she
falls to the ground hitting her head to a rock,
he reveals that the word shooter means shoot her,
from his desire to shoot her. Sooner,
Ted arrives there looking for Amy,
Morton hits him with the shovel as Amy watches
it helplessly, he then kills him with it. He then
goes to her and says the quote from his book that,
One day her death will be a mystery, even to me.
Few months later, Morton recovers from his
condition, and he goes to a store, there he
sees the lady who works in the post office, she
seems to be scared and she tries to avoid him.
The sheriff arrives to the cabin, the cabin now
seems to be well organized with a lot of corn in
the kitchen. Morton invites the sheriff upstairs
and the sheriff claims that everyone knows what
he did, and eventually the bodies of the missing
people will be found, and he will be caught. He
tells him that people are uncomfortable to see
him in the town, and he is no longer welcomed
there. Morton says the only thing that matters is
the ending, and this one is the perfect ending.
It is assumed that the body of Amy and
Ted are buried under the garden of corn.
And he says one day her death will be a
mystery, even to me. And the movie ends,
Please don’t forget to like and subscribe and
let me know about your thoughts on the movie.